From jeffery@sys.caltech.edu  Thu Oct 13 20:02:24 1988
Date: Thu, 13 Oct 88 14:59:08 PDT
From: jeffery@sys.caltech.edu (Jeffery Cavallaro)
Subject:  Possible Name Resolution Problem
Index: ucb/named 4.3BSD

Description:

	There appears to be a problem when putting host names (as opposed to
Internet numbers) in "/etc/resolv.conf".  If a nameserver in the list is not
responding correctly during an ifconfig(8) on a client machine, then all
network utilities on the client machine will hang.


Repeat-By:

	Assume a nameserver client and two autonomous nameservers on a LAN.
Call the client C.N, and the nameservers S1.N and S2.N.  Setup a host file
on C.N as follows:

	x.x.x.x		C.N
	y.y.y.y		S1.N
	z.z.z.z		S2.N

and a resolve file on C.N as follows:

	domain		N
	nameserver	S1.N
	nameserver	S2.N

	Disable S1's nameserver, and establish the network on C.N:

	% ifconfig ec0 C.N arp trailers up

	This will usually hang.  If it doesn't, netstat(8) will surely hang.
Upon bringing the interface down, the hostname field on a "netstat -i" will
show the Internet number and not the host name.

	NOTE:  Using Internet numbers to network utilities (e.g. telnet) will
still work, but any attempt to use a name will fail.

This procedure describes what occurred on my system, which is hooked to our
local campus ethernet.  I don't know if it can be reproduced on another setup.

Fix:

	You are the experts, but I will take a guess.  On the initial
ifconfig(8), an attempt is made to resolve the name via a nameserver, as 
opposed to looking in the local hosts file.  Since the nameserver spec is in
the form of a hostname, the resolver attempts to resolve the name via another
nameserver broadcast as opposed to looking in the local host file.  If the
first nameserver tried is on the blink, then everything hangs and remains
unresolved.

	Again, this is just a guess.  I wish I could spend more time on it
right now, but I have to get 4.3-TAHOE going on my VAX.  I will look at the
whole thing later if you guys choose to ignore this.  If I am out-to-lunch
on this whole thing, please let me know.

	A fix is to only use Internet numbers in resolv.conf (which I know do),
or force gethost*(2) routines to always scan the local host table first.  As I
said, this may already be the case and I am wrong.

Thanks !!!

