From bugs@math.ucla.edu  Thu May 26 12:00:54 1988
Return-Path: <bugs@math.ucla.edu>
To: bugs@ucbvax.Berkeley.EDU
Cc: bugs@pic.ucla.edu, wales@cs.ucla.edu, paul@math.ucla.edu
Subject: Sendmail v5.59 oddity
Date: Thu, 26 May 88 11:59:38 PDT
From: bugs@math.ucla.edu
Index: usr.lib/sendmail 4.3BSD

This message may pertain to sendmail and/or to libresolv.a (resolver
library).  There are also comments about "bind" (namedaemon).
We are using sendmail v5.59 and "bind" v4.8 on a 4.3BSD system
(VAX 11/750).  Sendmail claims to have hostname lookup failures when sending
some messages to sites for which failure is not credible, like sites for
which localhost gives primary name service.  A particular message will fail
on zero or more queue runs but will eventually make it.

/usr/lib/sendmail -q -v reveals two odd behaviors:

1.  Sometimes sendmail declares "timed out during user open with %s" OR
"hostname lookup failure" an imperceptibly short time after printing the
"connecting to %s" message.  This happened on 3 out of 12 tries.  One of 
the sites affected was tucker.berkeley.edu, which I believe was down at
the time.  The site is probably irrelevant.

2.  Sometimes sendmail declares "hostname lookup failure" after a credible
wait, on a host for which 2 minutes earlier nslookup had delivered an 
address.  One affected site was Guinness.ias.edu; another was
cunyvm.cuny.edu.  This happened about 4 or 5 times in 12 tries.  On each
affected site, nslookup delivered a Non-Authoritative Answer (i.e. locally
cached), and when I manually queried the first authoritative nameserver for
the address the query timed out.  But in one case, a query to the second
authoritative server was successful.  That time.

3.  Sometimes normal delivery occurs, and sometimes there are believable
timeouts on user open.

4.  There are anecdotal reports from users that Telnet declares "host
unknown" occasionally on known hosts.  Telnet is definitely using the
distributed 4.3BSD libresolv.a, whereas sendmail was built with the one that
came with "bind" (he says confidently).

5.  Probably unrelated, but very annoying: we get a lot of "MAXQUERIES
exceeded" log messages from "bind" (namedaemon).  We have two forwarders
(the ucla.edu primary and secondary nameservers).  Detailed analysis of the
namedaemon debug log shows that on a difficult query, datagrams are
spun off to the forwarders one by one (each of which starts madly querying,
and may or may not eventually reply).  Then the local daemon fires off
queries to ALL TEN root nameservers (different addresses for the same site
count as separate nameservers), and gets referred to organizational
nameservers, and queries them (several per response), and sure enough, 
MAXQUERIES really is exceeded before somebody finally coughs up the required
address -- which often they eventually do. 

"Bind" could help cut net traffic if it realized that if a query yields
"no address available", querying the same name with a different address
will not improve matters.

Perhaps a progressive timeout is the answer, i.e. on the first
query you time out in 2 seconds, then 4 on the next, and by the time you 
resort to ARPAnet access you've learned to wait patiently for a response.

Also on forwarders, local namedaemon can't wait a long time for the
forwarder to answer, but it's a waste for the forwarder to collect the
information if local is going to collect it also.  Maybe the local daemon
should tell the forwarder to report cached data only (recursion flag off?),
and if it successfully researches an address it should send its forwarder(s)
a "look what I found" message, presently not supported in "bind".

James F. Carter        (213) 825-2897
UCLA-Mathnet; 6608B MSA; 405 Hilgard Ave.; Los Angeles, CA 90024-1555
UUCP:...!{ihnp4,ucbvax,sdcrdcf,{hao!cepu}}!ucla-cs!math.ucla.edu!jimc
ARPA: jimc@math.ucla.edu          BITNET: jimc%math.ucla.edu@INTERBIT

