From oir2@populi.Berkeley.EDU Fri Jul 18 17:38:03 1986
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 86 11:39:52 pdt
From: oir2@populi.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: Suggested changes to the manual for tar and ln
Index: man 4.3BSD

Subject:  Suggested improvements to the manual for 'tar' and 'ln'
To:  4bsd-help@BERKELEY
  (Previously sent to 4bsd-bugs@BERKELEY; rejected as non-standard format)
 
     I had considerable difficulty deciphering the manual for 'tar' (and, on
a related issue, 'ln').
     What follows is the messages I have sent to manual@ucbopal and to
consult@populi.  As indicated, a couple of the changes have been made in CFO's
version of the manual.  I would like to bring the remaining suggestions to
your attention, for eventual consideration.
                                                      /s/ Paul
                                                      Thanks,
                                                      Paul L. Hoch
                                                      2-8409
 
Subject:  Documentation of the "key" argument to tar
 
     The manual page (`man 1 tar`) and the usage note are inconsistent, and
I think both are wrong.
     The question is which letters make up the function portion of the key,
and which are options.
 
     The manual says that the function portion of the key consists of exactly
one of the following letters:  r, x, t, u, c, o, p.
     The usage note (generated, e.g., by 'tar' with no arguments) is
"tar: usage: tar -{txru}[cvfblmhopwBiE] [tapefile] [blocksize] file1 file2..."
which indicates that one of only four letters forms the function portion.
 
     In fact, "o" and "p" appear to be options, and "c" is a function.
     That is, "tar cf tarchive fname" works;
"tar of tarchive fname" and "tar pf tarchive fname" both fail.
     So, the usage note should be
tar: usage: tar -{txruc}[vfblmhopwBiE] [tapefile] [blocksize] file1 file2...
----THE FOLLOWING CHANGE HAS ALREADY BEEN MADE IN THE CFO MANUAL:  ---
and the following two lines of `man 1 tar` should be moved to precede the
paragraphs on "o" and "p":
     "The following characters may be used in addition to the
     letter which selects the function desired."
---------
 
     The "-" before the key (indicated by the usage note but not in the manual)
appears to be optional.
 
 
Subject:  Suggestions for improvements to `man 1 tar`
To:  manual@ucbopal (and for info to consult@populi)
 
     These are all seemingly minor points, but each of them slowed me
down as I was trying to learn about tar from the manual.
     Jacqueline Craig pointed out that, with the increasing usage of
miniVaxes, more users will be doing their own file archiving via tar.
So, it seems that improving the manual would be worthwhile.
     These points follow the order of the manual pages.
 
 
     (1)  Under "Description", the manual says
       "The key is a string of characters containing at most one function
     letter and possibly one or more function modifiers."
     and also, a little later,
       "The function portion of the key is specified by one of the
     following letters:"
     To avoid possible confusion, the first reference could just as well be
       "The key is a string of characters containing just one function
                                                     ||||
     letter and possibly one or more function modifiers."
 
     By the way, tar does not always enforce this requirement.  Calling tar
with no function character (just options) produces the "usage" message, but tar
with two or more function characters usually does not.  (I would guess that the
first function is used.)

 
     (2)  The "o" option:
          As noted in a previous message, o and p are options, not functions.
If they are used only with certain functions, that should be specified:
     o       On output, tar normally places information specify-
             ing owner and modes of directories in the archive.
             Former versions of tar, when encountering this
             information will give [an] error message of the form
                  "<name>/: cannot create".
Change from:
             This option will suppress the directory information.
to:
             Used with the c, r, or u function, this option will suppress
             the creation of the directory information.
(If, indeed, that is what the "o" option does.)

 
     (3)  The description of the "p" option seems unnecessarily cryptic:
     p       This option says to restore files to their original
             modes, ignoring the present umask(2).  Setuid and
             sticky information will also be restored to the
             super-user.

Would this be a correct translation of the first sentence?
     p       Used with the "x" function, this option
             |||||||||||||||||||||||||||
             says to restore each of the files involved to its original
             permission modes, ignoring the present permissions if the
             file already exists on disk.  (The "p" option does not, however,
             allow the "x" function to write over a file which does not
             have user write permission.)
 
     I do not understand the second sentence at all.  If it means
"When used by the super-user, the "p" option will also restore setuid and
sticky information," that phrasing would allow the ordinary user to
ignore the sentence if [s]he does not know what "sticky" and "setuid" mean.
 
 
     (4)  Alternate tape drive selection:
    "0, ..., 9 This modifier selects an alternate drive on which
               the tape is mounted.  The default is drive 0 at
               1600 bpi, which is normally /dev/rmt8."
     To avoid confusion about whether the default for this option is 0
or 8, how about the following:
    "0, ..., 9 This modifier (n) selects /dev/rmt(n) as an alternate
               drive on which the tape is mounted."

     Is the second sentence precisely correct, or should it be:
       "The default is /dev/rmt8, which is normally drive 0 at 1600 bpi."?
 
     At present, on populi, tar does not recognize "0,...,9" as options.
2, 3, 6 and 9 produce the message "unknown option."
 
 
     (5)  In the last part of the description of the "f" option, should not
"move" be changed to "copy"?
               Tar can also be used to move hierarchies with the command
                                       ||||
                 cd fromdir; tar cf - . | (cd todir; tar xf -)
     My impression is that, if you just wanted to do that command and
then remove the contents of fromdir, you would simply use "mv".


     (6)  In the "h" option, the idea of tar following a symbolic link was
not transparent to me.  How about replacing
     h         Force tar to follow symbolic links as if they were
               normal files or directories.  Normally, tar does
               not follow symbolic links.
 
     with something like
     h         Used with the c, r, or u function, this option
               forces tar to follow symbolic links as if they were
               normal files or directories, i.e. by storing a copy
               of the file under the name to which it was symbolically linked.
               Normally, tar does not follow symbolic links, but just stores
               and retrieves them as symbolic links.
 
 
     (7)  I would suggest adding, somewhere, a few sentences on how tar deals
with hard links, since that is a potential cause of problems.  (As I now
understand it, when storing files tar saves the file contents only under
the name of the first hard link encountered; if it is then asked to extract
only (say) the second hard link, it in effect re-creates the hard link
if there is a file with the first filename.  If there is no such file,
the message "tar: (filename): cannot link" occurs.


     (8)  I would suggest adding
     "SEE ALSO:  tar(5), ln(1)"
I found tar(5) helpful for understanding what tar actually does, and ln(1)
necessary for figuring out the references to symbolic links (which I have not
used in the past).
 

     (9)  The first line of the BUGS section is
    "There is no way to ask for the n-th occurrence of a file."
I assume this means you can't ask, while extracting, for anything but
the last file with a specific filename on the tape.  (Assuming all copies
have user write permission.)  If this is not what is being referred to,
it could be clarified; if it is, I suggest adding (here or earlier in the 
writeup) an explanation of how in practice one can get around this problem.
That is, turn the directories being extracted into subdirectories of a
dated directory, such as Archive01Jul86.  With this procedure, different
versions of a file will always have different full names on the tape, and any
one can be extracted.
 
 

----THE FOLLOWING CHANGE HAS ALREADY BEEN MADE IN THE CFO MANUAL:  ---
----   (That is, the sentences I could not interpret have been dropped.)
 
     The second problem (in man 1 tar) concerns the "r" and "c" functions.
     My problem is with the secondary part of the manual's description:
   
       r       The named files are written on the end of the tape.
               The c function implies this.
  
       c       Create a new tape; writing begins on the beginning
               of the tape instead of after the last file.  This
               command implies r.
 
     The first sentence in each case seems to accurately describe tar's
behavior:
     When I use the "r" function, if the archive file (e.g., 'tarchive' in
'tar rtvf tarchive fname') does not exist, I get the message 'tar:
cannot open tarchive'.
     When I use the "c" function, the archive file (if it exists) appears
to be wiped out before anything else happens.
     That all makes sense.  But the statements that the "c" function implies
the "r" function do not, to me.  (Unless they are intended to mean that "c"
creates a new null file and starts writing at the end of it!)
     Or perhaps tar behaves differently if the output is a physical tape?
(I have been playing with an archive file on disk, for obvious reasons.)
---------
 
 
 
Subject:  Suggested improvement in the manual page for "ln"
 
     I think that the description of the s option in "man 1 ln"
could be improved, roughly as follows:
 
     It presently says:
     "The -s option causes ln to create symbolic links.  A sym-
     bolic link contains the name of the file to which it is
     linked."
 
     I think it would be correct to say
     "The -s option causes ln to create symbolic links.  A sym-
     bolic link contains only the name of the file to which it is
                         ||||
     linked;  the symbolic link survives if the file name1 is removed.
     A symbolic link can be created if the file name1 does not exist.
 
     Such a change with make the description of symbolic links more nearly
parallel to that of hard links:
     "By default ln makes hard links.  A hard link to a file is
     indistinguishable from the original directory entry; any
     changes to a file are effective independent of the name used
     to reference the file."
     To which one could add:
     "If name1 is removed after a hard link to name2 is made, name2
     survives as an ordinary file."
 
     I have never used symbolic links, but I had to figure them out
so I could understand the writeup in "man 1 tar".

