
My own logging in addition to SCCS, so I can keep track of the little things.

-- 27-08-86 
  Finished breaking the files apart.  They compile, but don't seem to
work.

-- 28-8-86 
  Redirected ALL error and debugging messages to stderr.
  Clues: ~orange/harry/util/new/vers/dver.c and my dver.c are the same.
	  Both versions output the rather anomolous looking Character data stuff.

-- 29-08-86 
  Had wrong version of shift.c, and had RASTER_LEN (or something like
that) set wrong. Both fixed. Now works as well as Carol's version

-- 03-09-86 
  Fixed band problem: simply removed error conditions for bitmaps outside
of band in put1() in put.c.  Instead, rows of bitmaps outside band are ignored.
  Changed remaining error prints to if(dbg) error prints (but without 
#ifdef DEBUGABLE's).
  Removed namtab stuff from (mostly) font.c.
  Removed the unused function put() from put.c

  To do: something about resolution mode (ask jaap)
doesn't know about all fonts yet?

-- 05-09-86 
  Got rid of extra #includes in the.h; moved them to needed files only.

-- 08-09-86
  Made hpos, vpos and lastw in units of virtual (i.e. input) resolution.
They are cast to physical resolution via PHYS.  This is not completely working
yet.
  Needed: fix bugs here, and put all this stuff in graph.c

-- 09-09-86
  Moved all dependencies on font2 stuff to font2.c (including, 
unfortunately, putcode).  Moved typedef's from the.h to font2.c
  Fixed printchar().
  Put all (dbg) statements inside #ifdef DEBUGABLE's.
  Fixed bugs with hpos and PHYS.

-- 10-09-86
  Made graph.c work: put PHYS conversion in point() -- that is all that was
needed.  Added function initgraph() so that linethickness would be a function
of the resolution.
  Made t_pop restore linethickness (it saved it, but didn't restore it!).
  Have got the code for manipulating slants out of dhar.c.  Now what remains to
be done is to use `slant' in putcode().

-- 12-09-86
  Did slant.

--  6-10-86
  Put back the argument parsing for unused arguments (o emberassment!)

--  9-10-86
  Fixed all kinds of stuff in font2.c -- changed findrects and findchar to be
loops, not recursions.  Renamed some stuff and played with error messages.
As far as I know, font2 is working now. I sccs'd it so I could start playing with
bitmap files.  
  I made bitmaps.c, which will be used for making the bitmap files.
Right now, it is being used to check the font files.
  Changed all the #ifdef DEBUGABLE prints to DBGPRINTF -- its very ugly, but it
does make the code easier to read.

-- 10-10-86
  Added in the real read bitmaps code, and it compiles and at 
least doesn't break, but I need to see the output on hardcopy.

-- 13-10-86
  Alright, the bitmaps seem to work, and they are so small, we 
can make bitmap files for all the fonts in all the sizes...

-- 16-10-86
  Made bitmaps for every font in every size.  Moved vwrite et.al. 
to dev.c. Working. Now to remove rects

-- 20-10-86
  Removed rects from font2.c entirely -- now expects bitmaps.
  Fixed various small bugs, and everything seems to work now.
  Compiled -UDEBUGABLE and run that way as well.

-- 21-10-86
  Changed putcode to throw away chars that are to the left of the left
margin.

-- 29-10-86
  Fixed a bug with slants.

-- 19-11-86
  Various optimizations: shift.c removed, done inline and the `flip' 
function now done on the bitmap data (not at run time). The inline
shift loop works on integers now, ala the old versatec driver. Changed
the fontadmin structure to use an array of chardata pointers instead
of a linked list, thereby eliminating the findchar overhead.
  Tools/bitmaps.c was changed (to include the flip function).  Also, the
scaling part was pulled out and put in downscale.c, so that it can be used
by other functions. New .h file too.

  Changed the BAND size from 1 inch to 2.2 inches -- this will cut down
the number of graphical things that are calculated more than once because
they cross a band boundary. Change in both the.h and vsort.c

-- 27-11-86
  Changed the default bitmaps directory from /hfonts/temp to /hfonts/bits.
Been changing Tools/bitmaps so that I can reuse the most code for creating
LW fonts as well: most of the code in Tools/bitmaps.c has been moved to
Tools/downscale.c

  Fixed a Bug in vsort: pages did not always get started right; now they
do.  Also changed treatment of devcntrl commands; now they aren't preceded
by the standard HxxxVxxxfxsxx line.

-- 08-07-87
  Several bugs fixed: 
*putcode does not look at font 0 when trying to find a non-existant character.
*char indices in font2.c run 1 to 128 (instead of 0 to 127).
*code uses harris font tables, rather than `nver' font tables.
