 This file describes how to install Gremlin.  The following files are
relevant, and should be present in the gremlin sub-directory.  

	gremlin.manl	The manual page.  Use nroff/troff with -man macros.
	displays	A file indicating correspondences between AED 
			displays and text terminals.
	gremlin.mods	A list of recent user-visible changes to gremlin.
	sleeper.c	A program to run on the AED displays so that
			gremlin can read from the bit pads.
	makefile	Run this through make to generate an executable
			version of gremlin.
	gremlin.h	The header file, containing definitions used
			by all of the C sources.
	config.c	A file whic contains a list of standard files gremlin
			uses.  This file should be modified to reflect the
			current installation.
	*.c		There are about twenty other C files, containing
			the various pieces of gremlin.
	sample.g	A sample gremlin picture file.

To generate a runnable version of gremlin, do the following things:

1.  Decide on a home directory for gremlin.  This directory will contain
color maps and other random things.  Move gremlin.cmap and displays to 
this directory.  

2. Modify the file config.c to indicate the location of the cmap and
displays file and other information asked for.

3.  Modify the file displays to match your installation.  Each line
should contain two device names:  the first is the name of a text
terminal and the second is the name of the AED display to use when
gremlin is run from that terminal.  If gremlin is run from a terminal
other than those in the file, /dev/null will be used as the AED display
file.

4.  To generate an executable version of gremlin, just type "make".
To get a manual page, type "troff -man gremlin.manl".

5.  To be able to use the graphics tablet with gremlin, here's what you have 
to do for it to work.  First, I recommend getting a Summagraphics Bit One
with the RS-232 interface and 4-button cursor.  Gremlin will work with
this configuration and I haven't tried anything else.  You can buy
the tablet from AED for $2000 and they will plug it in for you, or you
can buy the tablet elsewhere for $1000 and spend 5 minutes to plug it
in yourself.  To connect the tablet to the AED, you have to make an RS232
cable with the wires ON ONE END ONLY switched as follows:
	- Switch pin 2 (transmit data) and pin 3 (receive data).
	- Switch pin 4 (ready to send) and pin 5 (clear to send).
	- Switch pin 20 (data terminal ready) and pin 6 (data set ready).
Then  open up the tablet and set the switches as follows (refer to
the tablet manual for more details):
	- Switch 1: set positions 6, 7, and 8 to "off", 9 to "on".  Leave
	  positions 1-5 alone, as these are for calibration.
	- Switch 2: set all positions to "off".
	- Switch 7: set all positions but 2 to "off".  Set 2 to "on".
Finally, on the back of the AED, set communications switches 3-4-5 to
up-down-up.  If the AED is connected to the VAX via a 9600-baud line,
switches 1-8 should be uuuduudu.  Note: you'll have to power the AED
down, then up again for the new switch settings to work.

6.  Another tablet-related note:  the login process that comes with
Berkeley Unix locks its port so that it cannot be opened for reading.
Thus gremlin will be unable to open the AED port to read the tablet
input.  If this happens, the tablet simply won't be used by gremlin.
There are two possible ways of fixing the problem.  What we do is
have people log in a job named "sleeper" on the AED terminal.  The
sleeper job doesn't need a password, and runs as shell a compiled
version of the file sleeper.c, included with this distribution.
(This means you have to create a special login called "sleeper"
with no password and the sleeper program as shell)
Another alternative is simply not to have a login process for AED
ports.  This is what we are currently (as of August, `83) doing at
Berkeley and have not had any trouble with it.

7.  At this point you should be ready to really use the system.

					-Barry Roitblat-

