This directory contains all of the software and documentation
associated with the "typesetter-independent TROFF".  The programs
here have evolved quite a bit since they left Bell.  They will
NOT be compatible with much of that software.  See the bottom of
this file for one feature not documented anywhere else.

Makefile:	a global makefile that makes and installs everything
info:		a crude line-printable copy of Brian Kernighan's paper
docs:		user's manuals, manual pages
driver:		all the binaries, and sources for the drivers and utilities
eqn:		eqn - program for typesetting mathematics
gremlin:	interactive graphical editor that runs on a terminal & AED
grn:		gremlin -> ditroff preprocessor
ideal:		advanced graphics typesetting language
pic:		simple graphics typesetting language
refer:		bibliographic data base preprocessor
tbl:		table typesetting program
tmac:		macro packages for general use, jacm, siam, software pract
		includes -me, -ms (Berkley ms macros) and -msd (Bell ms macros)
troff:		troff itself and old, useless drivers for several typesetters
vfont:		Berkeley Font catalogue
ifont:		extra imagen font (eqn's brackets).


NOTICE:
    VERY recently i've added two new commands to ditroff's language.
    They implement filled polygons using a stipple selection and a
    polygon drawing command.  The command ".st" selects a stipple set
    name (or number).  An `i' command goes out to the driver (just
    like an `f' command).  There are currently two of these defined:
    `ug' (1) and `cf' (2).  They're exactly like fonts, except that
    there is no width tables for them.  There are also entries in the
    DESC file for the stipples, again exactly like the font list.

    The drawing command \D'p # dx1 dy1 dx2 dy2 . . .' draws a polygon
    filled with stipple number # from the current selected stipple
    "font" through the motions (dx1, dy1), (dx2, dy2), . . .  If the
    motions don't result in a closed polygon, it'll be closed for the
    purposes of fill, but not for a border.  Unbordered polygons are
    drawn with the command \D'P # . . .'

    All the drivers understand the polygon commands.  The terminal
    and SUN previewers will not fill the polygons, but will show their
    outlines.  For the other drivers, stipple "fonts" contain the
    patterns to fill a polygon with.  The stipple font files must be
    present in the same font file directory as the text fonts, with
    "two_character_name.0" as the filename.  Imagen stipples have the
    restriction (from Imagen only) of being 32 x 32 bits.  The
    restrictions on vfont stipples is that they be square and a power
    of two times 8 pixels in dimension.
