.\" *troff -me
.ft PR
.vs +4p
.po +.25i
.ll -.25i
.nr ps \n(.v/2
.so HEADERS
.HE D
.ft PR
.nr pf \n(.f
.he ''- % -''
.nf
Hiro Tachibana
MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.
750 Arques Ave.
Sunnyvale, CA 94086-3650
.sp 2
Dear Mr. Tachibana:
.pp
Thank you for sending us the latest Software License Agreement.
Unfortunately, there are still a few issues that cause problems
for our distribution.
.lp
The issues that we feel need to be resolved are as follows:
.ip 1.
In paragraph number one, the Berkeley legal counsel feels that it is 
unclear that the sublicensees of the University would have the right
to use, modify, and reproduce MIPS software.
In addition, from our phone conversation, I believe that the reference
to the BSD standard license may need to be modified, as we will almost
certainly distribute the MIPS software under a license similar to the
one used with our recent networking release.
I have attached a copy of this license.
This will also necessitate changes in paragraph number seven, since
under the terms of this license (paragraph six) the licensee may freely
redistribute the source code to whomever they choose.
Finally, we will need permission to use, reproduce, or modify the MIPS
software on other than a MIPS system.  
As we have a single source pool for several architectures, it would
be impossible for us to separately maintain and distribute support for
the MIPS architecture.
.ip 2.
In paragraph number two, we would appreciate a clarification of the 
proprietary rights which MIPS would retain.
In particular, the proprietary notices in current releases of MIPS
software are too restrictive for our purposes since they explicitly
disallow use, disclosure or reproduction without prior express written
consent from MIPS.
I have attached the version of the standard Berkeley copyright notice
that we used for software contributed to us by Computer Consoles Inc.
We would appreciate permission to replace the MIPS copyright notice on
the software which we incorporate in our distribution with something
similar.
.ip 3.
Lastly, the specific software to be licensed to Berkeley for redistribution
is not quite sufficient.
Although MIPS has donated an M/120 system to Berkeley for this work,
and has discussed inclusion of support for the M/120 and M/2000 systems,
there is no mention of this in the current agreements.
The R/6000 CPU has been announced in the meantime, and Berkeley would be
interested in the addition of support for that CPU and systems based on it.
There are also modules from the standard C library that would be necessary
for inclusion of MIPS support in the BSD distributions.
.bp
We would also like to explore the possibility of listing the software
that MIPS wishes to exclude instead of listing the software that
MIPS wishes to contribute, as we feel that approach would entail less
problems as we incorporate the MIPS software.
Earlier versions of this agreement explicitly excluded the Network
File System, System Programmers Package, and the compiler technology.
.sp 2
.in 3.25i
Sincerely,
.sp 3
.nf
Michael J. Karels
Principal Programmer, CSRG
.in

.ta \w'cc: 'u
cc:	J. Billmaier, MIPS
	Hiro Tachibana, MIPS
	Bill White, MIPS
.tm \n% \n(nl
