Return-Path: <udenva!nbires!bware>
From: udenva!nbires!bware
Date: 19 Sep 83 18:39:13 MDT (Mon)
Subject: Critique of 4.1BSD documentation
Index: man 4.2BSD

One of our former professors in our Math and Computing Science Dept wrote a 
critique of the 4.1BSD documentation.  (He is now with Colorado School of Mines,
Golden, CO.)  

You are undoubtedly already aware of most of the points he has raised. 
Nevertheless, I am forwarding the critique to you (at his suggestion), in case
you find it of interest.  His comments were very helpful to us.  

				Bob Ware
				Computing Services
				University of Denver

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          CRITIQUE

                           of the

              BERKELEY 4.1 UNIX DOCUMENTATION



                             by



                       Jack K. Cohen






                      August 19, 1983






























1.  Introduction

     These notes are largely a listing of the factual errors
found by myself and others in the Berkeley documentation for
the "Virtual  VAX-11  Version"  of  the  "Seventh  Edition."
However,  I  have included some personal opinions and in all
liklihood some inadvertent errors as well.  Caveat emptor!

     Among the contributors to and critics  of  these  notes
are  various  members  of the University of Denver Computing
Services including Howard Lasus, Carol Ward,  and the "Three
Bobs"  (Stocker,  Shafer  and  Ware).  Also, I would be most
remiss if I did not give special mention to my  student  and
teacher, Andrew Burt.














































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


2.  An Introduction to the C Shell

     The following comments  apply  to  the  November,  1980
release of this document, which was authored by William Joy.

p2.  The mail example shows a visible EOT signal being  sent
     to  the  terminal.  Such visible signals are (alas) not
     sent to the terminal.

     It is stated that the uparrow character will be used to
     represent  the  control key.  This conflicts with other
     documents in this volume and  conflicts  with  internal
     usage  in  this document.  For on pages 14, 15, we find
     uparrow being used in  the  discussion  of  history  to
     represent the hat character.

p7.  The first complete sentence on this page ("There exists
     ..."),  is too long and appears to lose its focus as it
     draws to an end.

p8.  Again a visible EOT is shown.

p9.  Near the top, an explicit claim for the appearance of a
     visible EOT appears.

     Third sentence of  second  paragraph  gives  the  shell
     human  attributes (it can be "provoked", but apparently
     only sometimes).

     After the example of using the command,  'more',  as  a
     filter, we find the awkward phrase, "more simple more".

p11. The example of a typical  .login  could  be  made  more
     useful   if   here,   or  elsewhere,  a  more  complete
     explanation was given.

     The little shell shown at the end of the .login,  fails
     if one follows the advice of CSH(1), page 16 re numeric
     arguments in the mail  variable.   However,  after  the
     shell  one  could (I think) set mail=(300 $mail) or the
     like.

     Also, when I tried this example, I always got the  mail
     bit  even  if I had no mail.  Changing the test '-e' to
     '! -z' seemed to cure the problem.

     It is stated that the default 'mail check' interval  is
     5  minutes;  it  seems  to  be  10 minutes as stated in
     CSH(1), page 16.

     The  reference  to  'biff  y'  should  be  removed,  as
     virtually all users will find this an annoying feature.








BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


p14-16.
     As noted above uparrow (defined as control key) is used
     when the hat character is meant.

p17. In the first sentence of the last paragraph,  the  word
     "backgound" should have an 'r' inserted after the 'g'.

p17-19.
     On page 17, it is stated that a pipe is a  single  job.
     On  the next page (at the top) it shows as two jobs and
     on p19 (near the top) the  same  example  is  shown  as
     giving  rise  to a single job. (I fear this comment may
     be exposing my ignorance.)

p23. The reference to the repeat command (which has  limited
     usefulness  since  it  iterates  only a simple command)
     might well be supplemented  with  a  scaled  down  (and
     improved!) version of the following CSHELL example:

     #! /bin/csh
     # Usage: loop ntimes cmd ...
     # Repeat group of commands n times
     # Note: The built-in, 'repeat' works only on simple cmds.
     # CAVEAT: cmds with args must be quoted, eg., loop 2 "sleep 10" who
     set c=$0
     set c=$c:t
     set N=$#argv

     if ($N < 2) then
             echo Usage $c ntimes cmd ...
             exit(1)
     endif
     @ x = $1
     shift
     @ N--
     while ($x)
             @ i = 1
             while ($i <= $N)
                     $argv[$i]
                     @ i++
             end
             @ x--
     end


     The discussion of setenv  needs  to  supplemented  with
     some discussion of what an "environment" is.

p25ff.
     I suggest that some of the better shell programmers  be
     rounded up to write a few shells to illustrate the many
     items mentioned at an almost breathless  rate  in  this
     part of the tutorial.


                            -3-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


p26. Near the bottom of the page, what is that c  after  the
     backslash?  In any case: echo -n 'yes or no? ' does the
     job required.

p28. The  pitfall  of   not   using   'noglob'   should   be
     illustrated.

p29. I had trouble using set n=$0:t in shell  scripts.   (so
     the  program would be able to "know" its name for error
     messages).  Finally, I found that set n=$0, followed by
     set n=$n:t worked, but I have no idea why!

p30. Again, I advocate illustrating  the  structures  shown.
     This is supposed to be a tutorial.

p31. A  comment  should  be  added,  explaining   what   the
     'oldstring'  is  in the ed 's' command.  Note that here
     the uparrow is again  used  in  the  non-  control  key
     sense.

     Section 3.10 is too terse to be of any use.   And  then
     one-third of it re-explains #.

p37. In last paragraph correct the typo: messsages.




































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


3.  An Introduction to Display Editing with Vi

     The following comments  apply  to  the  November,  1980
release of this document, which was authored by William Joy.

p5.  It seems a poor strategy to continually  offer  varying
     methods  for doing the same thing.  In section 2.4, for
     example, why not stick to 'h' and 'l' as the  preferred
     mode  (as  suggested  in  section  2.3)  for performing
     lateral motions?  Also I'd "push" 'j' and  'k'  as  the
     preferred  mode  for vertical motions over 'RETURN' and
     '-' (though it must be made clear that the  latter  are
     not  equivalent).   The use of '+' in place of 'RETURN'
     seems silly for anyone who types even a little,  so  in
     section    2.3,   I   suggest   mentioning   '+'   only
     parenthetically  or  in  a  footnote.   In  general,  I
     suggest  the alternate methods should be mentioned once
     at some appropriate place (in this case in section 2.3)
     and then ignored.

p9.  Introduce A and I, relegate $a to the background.

p10. As discussed in the 'Vi Tutorial Update', the use of  a
     preceding  count  for the ']]' and '[[' section-finding
     commands no longer works.

     There is an undocumented feature  of  capitalizing  the
     buffer  name  to  indicate  appending  to  (rather than
     overwriting) the buffer.

     On last line,  replace  "a  named"  with  "an  unnamed"
     buffer.

p12. Again, the preceding line count function  discussed  at
     the  bottom  of  this  page and the top of the next, no
     longer works.

p13. The default for redraw is shown as "nore".  It seems to
     be  redraw.   This being the case, it is unnecessary to
     specify "redraw" in our  /usr/skel/.login.   Also,  the
     indicated  option  abbreviation  "nore"  is rejected as
     illegal ("noredraw" is accepted).

     The default for magic is shown as nomagic  although  it
     is  stated  in several other places that vi and ex have
     default magic, while it is edit that  has  the  nomagic
     default.  Cf:  p20,  p26  and  section  8.2  of  the Ex
     Reference Manual.

     The default options 'para' and  'sect'  do  not  "know"
     about  the  new  macro  -me.  A direct insertion of the
     defaults shown for these options in  EXINIT  would,  in
     fact,  fail  because  the  blanks shown in the defaults


                            -5-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     need to be escaped with  a  backslash.   The  following
     'set'  in  EXINIT  serves  to  add  the  -me  paragraph
     headings: para=IPLPPPQPbpP\ LIiplpnppp, similarly,  the
     -me    section    headings    can    be   added   with:
     sect=NHSHH\ HUshuh.

     It would be useful if the 'sm' option could be extended
     to  (at least) the brackets, '[', ']'.  This would make
     'sm' consistent with % which does match all three kinds
     of  parentheses.   It  would  be  even nicer if, as for
     'para' and 'sect', the user could  specify  parenthesis
     pairs.

p14. It is not clear whether the advice  about  getting  the
     EXINIT  on  one line is important or not.  What are the
     alternatives, why are they not  desirable?   Certainly,
     it  needs  to  be said that one can let the line 'wrap'
     and just keep typing.  As it is, it sounds  like  maybe
     everything  needs  to said within a fixed, small number
     of characters.

p16. In last sentence there is a spurious 's' after the ^V.

p17. A colon is needed before the 'unmap' example.  I do not
     think  EXINIT-defined  maps can be eliminated with this
     command.

     The space between the 'I' and  the  '#'  in  the  first
     'map'  example  is  hard to see.  I suggest inserting a
     second space here (what the hell).

     Just before section 7, a crucial ! has been  elided  in
     the map command example.

     It is simply unfair for the  manual  to  refer  to  the
     quick reference card as a source of information as does
     section 7.1.  Pedestrian as it seems, the abbreviations
     have to be spelled out right here.

p18. Again, as per the 'Update', the effect of  a  preceding
     count  on new window size as stated in the table at the
     start of section 8.2 is no longer implemented.

p21. In section 8.7, first paragraph,  last  sentence,  that
     "without" should be a "with."

p23ff.
     There are a lot  of  references  to  section  7,  which
     should be revised to refer to section 8.

p24. Typo at end of line defining ^S.









BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


p25. The definition of % should include the brackets [].

p26. The  reference  to  .exrc  at  the  end  of  the  third
     paragraph should reference .login instead.

new feature
     The ~ switches the  case  of  the  letter  beneath  the
     cursor.   However,  preceding  the  tilde with a number
     will not cause a sequence of letters  to  change  their
     case; you have to do them one at a time.


















































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


4.  Ex Reference Manual

     General remark: put synonyms on the same  line  as  the
command  and  the  abbreviation.   In particular, this would
give people familiar with older UNIX line editors the chance
to  spot  the  new  name easily.  For example, give 't' as a
synonym for copy in the form:

    (. , .) copy            abbr: co        syn: t


p8.  Abbreviation (l) for 'list' (l) omitted.

     Abbreviation (ma) and synonym (k) for 'mark' omitted.

p9.  Abbreviation for 'preserve' (pre) omitted.

p10. Abbreviation for 'set' (se) omitted.

p12. Abbreviation for 'xit' (x) omitted.

     The shorter abbreviation 'y' for 'yank' is accepted.

p16. The 'edcompatible' defintion is a bit obscure.   Surely
     the phrase 'presence of absence' should be 'presence or
     absence?'  And why is the plural of suffix given in two
     variants?

5.  Ex/Vi Quick Reference Card

     Under 'Line Positioning' the uparrow denotes  a  cursor
     key,  while under 'Corrections during insert', it means
     'caret' or 'hat' symbol.

     Under 'Character positioning', h, l lines should be:

         h or <--        backwards
         l or -->        forward






















BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


6.  Mail Reference Manual

p1.  It should be mentioned that 'mail' need  not  have  its
     first letter capitalized.

     In addition to the ^D method of ending a letter,  there
     is  an undocumented exit achieved  by typing '.' (dot).
     If the one finds this bothersome, one can  remove  this
     option by placing the line:

         unset dot

     in one's .mailrc file.

p2.  The discussion of 'delete' makes it sound  irrevocable.
     Undelete  should  be  mentioned parenthetically or in a
     footnote.

     The  information  obtained  by  executing  the   'help'
     command  mentioned  at  the  bottom of the page advises
     putting 'distribution lists' in a file  .sendrc.   This
     file  is  not  mentioned  in  this reference manual and
     indeed, .mailrc is the appropriate place for  the  mail
     group   aliases.    As   a   corollary,  .mailrc  isn't
     mentioned.

p3.  Since the ~m escape shifts the included  message  right
     by a tab stop, often message lines will "wrap."

p4.  The ~h prompt for a Bcc field is undocumented.

     The ~b prompt to send a Bcc is also undocumented.

     Despite the phrase 'edit' in connection  with  ~h,  one
     really must manage with 'backspace' as the only editing
     facility. One  cannot  use  the  ex  's'  command,  for
     example.

p5.  The optional argument + to h does not work.   See  also
     page 8 where the same claim is made.  It turns out that
     using hn, 18 < n < 37, does  the  trick,  but  this  is
     undocumented.

     I find 'h' annoyingly inflexible.  It always  wants  to
     print out 18 headers.

p6.  CAUTION:  If  one   uses   the   RETURN   method   (the
     abbreviation for 'next') to type out one's messages, be
     aware that 'd' followed by RETURN  has  the  effect  of
     skipping  over the current message.  A common result of
     this is exiting  'mail'  only  to  discover  that  even
     though you read to EOF, there are unread messages being
     returned to the spool.  Another common result is losing


                            -9-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     one's  'place'  when  cleaning  up  mbox.   The cure is
     simple, after  a  'd',  the  current  message  must  be
     accessed  by  a  't'  or a '.' instead of a return.  Or
     even classier, use 'dt' instead of 'd'.   This  feature
     is   analogous  to deleting a line in a line editor and
     having to back up one line to replace it.  Logical.   I
     hate it.

p9.  Locally, the options 'dot'  and  'append'  are  set  as
     defaults.


















































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


7.  Using Nroff and -ME

p3.  The .in 1i option did not work  (on  a  TVI912C).   The
     nroff command .po 1i did.

p8.  In section 4.2, one is not told HOW  to  get  footnotes
     labelled with special characters.





















































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


8.  Programmer's Manual - Section 1

cat  Cat with  no  arguments  does  not  echo  back  to  the
     terminal.   The  manual  says  that  when  the standard
     output is a terminal, the output is line  buffered.   I
     take  that  to  mean  that  each  line input, should be
     echoed after the NEWLINE.  Since  'cat  -u'  does  echo
     back  to  the terminal, the problem is likely that some
     undocumented buffering is going on.

     Mention should be made of the related command, "see."

cb   It seems inconsistent with the vast  majority  of  UNIX
     software that this command does not accept command line
     arguments to redirect stdin and stout.

cc   I don't understand why some of the options accepted  on
     the  command line by 'cc' are not discussed on the 'cc'
     manual page, but are deferred to  the  'ld'  page.   In
     particular the -s option should be mentioned.  It can't
     be that all the 'ld' options are valid, since (it seems
     to  these  dim eyes) -S is used differently between the
     two commands.  Anyway, I vote for all the  items  which
     may  be on the 'cc' command line being discussed on the
     'cc' manual page.

csh  On page 14, "then" is omitted from the list  of  built-
     ins.

     On page 17, "term" and "user" are omitted from the list
     of pre-defined and environmental variables.

     The discussion of the  "prompt"  variable  is,  at  the
     least, misleading.  The command:

         set prompt='\!: '

     will give a prompt consisting of event  number,  colon,
     space  whereas  the  discussion  led  me to expect this
     command to  provide  a  prompt  of  exclamation  point,
     colon,  space.   Moreover,  paraphrasing the gurus from
     Bell:

         set prompt='!: '

     does not have the effect probably intended, while:

         set prompt='! '

     does give a prompt consisting of event number, space.

     In  the  BUGS  subsection,  the   alias   facility   is
     deprecated  vs.  the  use  of Shell files.  The user is


                            -12-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     left uncertain whether something like 'alias del rm -i'
     is a good or bad way to proceed.

     Request: Provide some version of 'set' which shows  the
     value  of  the  variable.   Maybe 'set var?' would be a
     good choice.  Of course, 'echo $var'  works,  but  this
     seems unnatural in this context.

     Request: Extend 'repeat'  to  compound  commands.   The
     shell   program   shown   in   the   critique   of  the
     "Introduction to the  C  Shell"  above  gives  such  an
     extension.

checknr
     This command should be extended to cover -mm too.   And
     also to include the 'checkeq' command's duties.

cp   The local recursive program should  be  mentioned  (and
     suggested to Berkeley as a possible option).

crypt
     See comment for 'cb.'

deroff
     The macro package -me throws deroff into a tizzy.  It's
     fun   to   watch  deroff  on  a  file  headed  by  '.so
     /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.e'.  Of course, 'deroff' will remove
     -me  roffisms  if  the  file does not contain the '.so'
     line.

diction
     Should "grok" -me.  But I suspect the real  problem  is
     with  'deroff'.   It  is  not nice to suck users into a
     macro  package  for  which  tools  like   'spell'   and
     'diction' can't be used.

ed   The -p option does not produce * prompt.  And  trailing
     delimiters  are needed on the 's' command.  In general,
     this seems to be the original bare-bones Bell Labs text
     editor, not the jazzy version claimed in the manual.

error
     The -v option is not as  useful  as  one  might  think,
     because  any  errors which are "not file specific" will
     be flashed on the screen all too  briefly,  before  the
     screen editor in invoked and clears the screen.  Thus I
     would suggest dropping the -v option from  the  example
     shown,  unless  a  suitable  disposition  of  the  non-
     specific errors is shown (and explained).

     In  the  explanation  of  the  -t  option,   the   word
     "separated" is misspelled.








BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     In the last BUGS entry, I'd suggest changing  the  last
     phrase  to  "is  not  suitable  for  use  with hardcopy
     terminals."

ex   Comment: I would like to have 'A', 'I' in  the  command
     set,  where  'A'  is 's/$/' and 'I' is 's/^/'. (And, of
     course, program it with ^A or the like as the delimiter
     instead of /.)

f77  The subheading -o is missing.

find The bug cited is an understatement.  It took me a month
     to  figure  out  how  to find and print the files in my
     subdirectories which matched a regular expression.

finger
     In the second BUG item, the word "that" is misspelled.

learn
     New courses are needed!  Especially on "ex",  "vi",  "-
     me".

ls   Comment: Despite the claims  of  an  over-abundance  of
     options,  this version is inflexible.  For example, one
     cannot check the protections  without  seeing  all  the
     info in -l.

mail The ~b escape is not documented.

     The option "quiet" also has the undocumented effect  of
     suppressing the current message number.

     A possible BUG entry: ex/vi cannot be aimed at headers.

man  The related commands "apropos" and "whatis"  should  be
     mentioned.

mkdir
     creation mode is 755, not 777.

more This command needs an option to  suppress  it's  prompt
     message.  Yes, even on a CRT.  You wouldn't believe the
     shell I had  to  write  to  avoid  getting  the  prompt
     printed on my serial slaved printer!

ms   Comment: Looks like a utility to convert text from  -ms
     to  the  newer  -me  would  be easy to write.  Then one
     could make use of me's greater power without doing gobs
     of preliminary editing on old text.

pr   It would be helpful to have options to set left  margin
     and  the  top  margin.   Also it would be useful to get
     paginated output without a heading.  It may  seem  like


                            -14-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     pr -t does this, but this option does not provide blank
     lines at the page break.

refer
     In the -k option,  the  final  "L"  should  be  "l"  (I
     think).

     An example is needed.  I am not clear on  exactly  what
     will  be output nor am I certain on exactly what I have
     to input.

     I suspect -me will drive "refer" as insane as "deroff",
     "style", etc.

rev  Give some examples of when this command would  serve  a
     useful purpose.

spell
     This command is so clever that if  you  use  the  '.so'
     facility  in  material  to be later nroffed or troffed,
     'spell' checks for  spelling  errors  in  the  included
     file.   The  trouble  is  that at the lowest level, the
     chain of included files is likly  to  end  with  system
     macros  such as /usr/lib/tmac/tmac.e.  The novice, nay,
     even many sophisticated users, are going to be  puzzled
     when   'Allman'  (tmac.e's  author)  is  flagged  as  a
     spelling error! Here are  the  spelling  'errors'  that
     will be flagged (erroneously in all liklihood) with the
     currently accessible tmac files:

         npwbmm.cs: permission denied
         npwbmm.m: permission denied
         npwbmm.toc: permission denied

         tmac.a:
         arg
         calcuations
         rathole
         wdith

         tmac.an:
         an6n
         an6t
         lib
         Reg
         runout
         tmac

         tmac.an.new:
         Reg
         runout

         tmac.cp:


                            -15-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


         aip
         countrev
         findbig
         Gov't
         linexxx
         mel
         Vol
         tmac

         tmac.e:
         Allman
         tmac

         tmac.m: permission denied

         tmac.s:
         arg
         CSTR
         czech
         GEI
         Gov't
         IFM
         lesk
         Naperville
         Refs
         tmac
         UMLAUT
         Vol

         tmac.scover:
         GEI
         Refs

         tmac.skeep:
         IFM

         tmac.srefs:
         arg
         Gov't
         linexxx
         Vol

         tpwbmm.cs: permission denied
         tpwbmm.m: permission denied
         tpwbmm.toc: permission denied


     There is a bit more to it than indicated above.   Spell
     treats the 'include' lines corresponding to each of the
     three major packages in a different way:

.so  This line will invoke the cascade  of  spelling  errors
     listed  above,  but  in addition does find the spelling


                            -16-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     errors.

.so  Will find ONLY the two "errors"  mentioned  above.   No
     matter  how bad you spel.  Apparently, 'spell' does not
     like tmac.e (see remarks under  'deroff'  above).   You
     have  to  nroff the file first or delete the '.so' line
     before using spell.

.so  Because -mm is not publicly available  on  the  system,
     this  include  line,  evokes  a last will and testament
     from 'deroff' and dies.  This  might  tend  to  confuse
     some users.

     Spell needs an option to specify a file  of  'exception
     words'  which are NOT to be flagged as spelling errors.
     Probably 'spell' should demand that they be sorted, one
     per  line or something like that to promote efficiency.
     The following shell program accomplishes this:










































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


         #! /bin/csh
         # Usage: dict filename ...
         # spell command with exception list.

         set ucb=/usr/ucb
         set sys=/bin
         set usr=/usr/bin
         set jkc=~jkcohen/bin

         set c=$0
         set c=$c:t

         set words=~jkcohen/Wds/words
         set typos=~jkcohen/Tmp/$$.dict

         if (! $#argv) then
                 echo Usage $c filename ...
                 exit(1)
         endif

         if ($1 =~ -*) then
                 set o=$1
                 shift
         else
                 set o=""
         endif

         onintr cleanup
         echo Getting dictionary ...
         if (-e $words.C) $ucb/uncompact $words.C

         set noglob
         foreach i ($argv)
                 echo $i
                 $usr/spell $o $i >$typos
                 $usr/comm -23 $typos $words
         end

         cleanup:
         onintr -
         echo Putting dictionary away ...
         $sys/rm $typos
         # next line arranges for compacting exception list in wee hours.
         $usr/at 1am $jkc/pack
         exit(0)


tset One devoutly hopes that the cited  BUG  will  be  fixed
     soon.

yes  Give some examples of when this command would  serve  a
     useful purpose.  (No, I haven't lost my sense of humor,
     it's just that infinite loops on a  busy  computer  may


                            -18-







BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


     not be all that funny.)



























































BERKELEY UNIX                                  Jack K. Cohen


9.  FINAL WORD

     After all this grumbling and fault-finding, I would  be
most  remiss not to say some kind words about the people who
have developed the most  exciting,  user-friendly  operating
system in the history of the Universe:

    I toast the  developers  of  UNIX  and  UNIX-related
    amenities  everywhere  and  especially the people of
    Bell Labs and the University of Berkeley.  May  lint
    give  you  nothing  but  good  news!   May you never
    suffer from bus errors or core dumps.


