Dear Mr. Karels:

Enclosed you will find the material known as GNU Chess for distribution
along with the Berkeley Software Distributions, if you find it useful.  We
own and have title to this material and we have the authority to convey
the material to you for The Regents to distribute.  We understand that
you may wish to modify this material before distribution, and have no 
objection to your so doing, although there are a few things (such as the
copyright notices, copying permission notices, the GNU Chess General Public
License, and a few portions of the manual) that may not be changed.
Attached is a list of the names of the files which make up this material.

It is understood that The Regents have the right to distribute the material
to whomever it deems appropriate, in accordance with the redistribution
conditions stated in the GNU Chess General Public License.  The Regents
may not impose any restrictions on the way the recipient uses or distributes
GNU Chess.  If The Regents distribute GNU Chess together with other software
on which The Regents do impose restrictions, they must explicitly and
prominently state that the restrictions do not apply to GNU Chess.  This
includes any restrictions designed to protect or enforce AT&T or other
ownership of the accompanying software.  Recipients will therefore be
free to redistribute under the terms permitted by the copyright holder as
stated in the GNU Chess General Public License, a copy of which must
accompany every distribution of GNU Chess.

We also understand that you will attempt to ensure that the enclosed material
is distributed with the same provision regarding proper credit that is used
for material originating at the University of California; however, the
enclosed material is sent to you with no obligation that you, The Regents
of the University of California, or any employee of The Regents actually
ensure proper credit or enforce obedience to the distribution conditions
by other parties or provide any other specific protection for this material.

We do not intend by forwarding this material to you to enter into a contractual
relationship; rather, we are providing this material to accompany the
Berkeley Software Distribution in order to make a contribution to the
community of UNIX users.

				On my own behalf as copyright holder
				of most files of GNU Chess, and simultaneously
				on behalf of the Free Software Foundation,
				copyright holder of the rest of GNU Chess,
				as the President of the Foundation

