
	 CAP - Columbia AppleTalk Package for UNIX (4.2 BSD).
	       (For use with AppleTalk/Ethernet bridge)

	o RELEASE NOTES
	o CAP Distribution 5.00, May 1988

Introduction
------------

This distribution should allow asp, atp, pap client and server
applications to be developed.

The 10/86, 2/87, 9/87 or 1/88 Revision of the UDP software, known as
"KIP", developed by Bill Croft at SUMEX, Stanford University is
required.  Revision 1/88 or later is preferred.

Notice
------

Copyright (c) 1986, 1987, 1988, The Trustees of Columbia University in
the City of New York.  Charlie C. Kim, User Services Group, Academic
Information Services Division, Libraries and Center for Computing
Activities and Bill Schilit, formerly of Computer Research Facilities,
Computer Science Department.

Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy,
or redistribute this software so long as it is not sold for profit,
provided that this notice and the original copyright notices are
retained.  Columbia University makes no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

--

Portions Copyright (c) 1985, Stanford Univ. SUMEX project.
May be used but not sold without permission.

Portions Copyright (c) 1984, Apple Computer Inc.
Gene Tyacke, Alan Oppenheimer, G. Sidhu, Rich Andrews.

Modules copyright in part or whole by any other entity than Columbia
University are clearly marked as such.

--

Portions are of the CAP distribution are public domain software.  The
specific item is:
	extras/att_getopt.c

Portions of the CAP distribution are contributed by other sites including:
	Rob Chandhok, Computer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University
	Paul Campbell


ABSTRACT
--------

CAP is written for BSD 4.2 Unix and derivatives.  CAP implements a
library containing a portion of Apple Computer's AppleTalk protocols.
In order to use this package you need an AppleTalk/Ethernet bridge
(e.g. Kinetics FastPath box).  CAP includes a number of applications
that can be used to print to a LaserWriter, spool for a LaserWriter,
and act as Unix based AppleShare compatible file server (no support
for AppleShare PC).  CAP also includes a number of sample programs and
contributed software.

CAP library routines are structured, for the most part, the same as
the Apple routines described in "Inside AppleTalk" and "Inside
LaserWriter."  Refer to the Apple documents and the procedure comments
for a complete description of the routines and how to call them.

Bill Croft's original work in this area provided the inspiration for
CAP.

Prerequisties
------------

 o Kinetics FastPath box running the 10/86, 2/87, 9/87, or 1/88
   Revision of the UDP software, known as "KIP", developed by Bill
   Croft at SUMEX, Stanford University is required.

 o baseline host system: Ultrix 2.0-1.  Most will work under BSD 4.2,
   BSD 4.3, Ultrix 1.0-1.2, Sun OS 3.2 or higher, ACIS 4.2, A/UX, and
   other systems with BSD like networking facilities with varying
   levels of functionality.  Under certain systems, only portions will
   work.

Information
-----------

There is no CAP mailing list.  Instead, notices and information about
CAP are posted to the mailing list info-appletalk which is gatewayed
with the USENET news group comp.protocols.appletalk.  If you don't
have access to comp.protocols.appletalk and have access to the
ARPANET, you can get on the mailing list by sending mail to
info-appletalk-request#@andrew.cmu.edu.  [The '#' part of the address
is currently optional, but it helps speed up delivery.]


Important documentation resides in:
	NOTES - installation notes: READ THIS BEFORE STARTING INSTALLATION
	PORTING - notes on porting CAP to machines it doesn't know about
	MANIFEST - a list of files that comprise CAP
	doc/installation.ms - stepwise installation document: assumes
	  you have read NOTES and this document

What's in CAP
-------------

The Columbia AppleTalk Package consists of a number of libraries, a
number of programs, and associated documentation.  Following is a list
of the main parts along with a brief description.  

 o NOTES for a general overview of installation and some overview
   material.
 o PORTING for information about making CAP work on systems not listed
   in NOTES

 netat - general header files used by various parts of CAP
 man - man pages for some of the programs
 doc - documentation
 lib/cap - main appletalk libraries: ASP, PAP, ATP, NBP, DDP
 lib/afp - generic AppleTalk Filing Protocol (AFP) routines
 lib/afpc - AFP client libraries
 etc - support programs: only atis - support program for NBP
 extras - code and materials not necessarily related to AppleTalk
 samples - sample programs: allow simple interaction with lw, appleshare
	server, etc.  See README there.
 contrib - contributed programs
 applications - main applications.

The following programs in applications are in regular use at Columbia
and are a main part of the reason we work on CAP:
  papif		- UNIX lpd "input" filter for spooling to appletalk
		- also includes sample "output" filter and printcap entry
		- Note: this is a very bare bones filter
  lwsrv		- Simple LaserWriter spooler suitable for extension
  aufs		- AppleTalk Filing Protocol Unix File Server
		- Note: does NOT support AppleShare PC
    NOTE: You must have the AppleShare 1.0 or 1.1 client code installed in
      your Macintosh to use this.  You must obtain this from Apple -
      we do not and do not plan to supply this.  The client code is
      a lot of work and Apple's already done an excellent job here - well
      worth paying for.

Bug Reports
-----------

Send bug report, comments, etc. to bug-cap@columbia.edu (arpa),
rutgers!columbia!bug-cap (uucp), or bug-cap@cucca (bitnet).

Notes
-----
Hasn't been througly checked out on any system except Ultrix 2.0.
It it known to have run or should be able to run under: BSD 4.2, BSD
4.3, Ultrix 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 2.2, Sun OS 3.2 or higher, Pyramid's Unix
under the BSD universe, ACIS 4.2 or 4.3 for the IBM RT PC, A/UX, HP-UX
for the series 9000 (release 6.0), Convex Unix V6.1, Sequents, and the
Encore Multimax.

LAP - will probably never be implemented
DDP - don't try to use it directly
Documentation - in shorter supply than it should really be


TODO list
---------
a) Complete NBP - completed.
b) Complete PAP - completed.  
c) Complete ATP - completed.
d) Complete DDP - essentially completed, but some minor parts missing.
e) Complete ASP - completed.
f) Start AFP - client side needs to be redone, server side okay.
g) Start ZIP work.  KIP modified to allow under rev 1/88.
h) Start RTMP work.  Not need under KIP.
i) miscellanous other fixes and cleanup


Credits
-------

Thanks to the User Services staff at Columbia University Center for
Computing Activies for patiently testing all the broken software that
was foisted on them as "working" with special thanks going to:
	Rob Cartolano for testing Aufs beyond the call of duty
	Alan Crosswell for making papif die more than anyone else and
		letting me use his RT.
	Lisa Covi and Jeff Eldredge for living with the software in
		our Mac MicroLab
	Mark Kennedy, Tom Chow, and Richard Sacks for giving Charlie
		the support and time to work on CAP
and Father Larry "Mac" McCormick from the Columbia University
Macintosh Users Group for his inspiration and support.

And to the following list of people for their
support, help, commentary, and bug fixes:
	Bill Croft, SUMEX, Stanford University
	Janet Tornow, Apple Computer
	Dan Tappan, Bolt Beranek and Newman
	Rakesh Patel, Rutgers University
	Charles Hedrick, Rutgers University
	Robert Elz, Munnari, Australia
	Dan Sahlin, Swedish Institute of Computer Science, Sweden
	Scooter Morris, Genentech
	Mike Byron, Adobe Systems Incorporated
	Tom Mallory, Adobe Systems Incorporated
	Phil Farrell, School of Earth Sciences, Stanford University
	Mark Davies, VUW, New Zeland
	Roy Smith, Public Health Research Institute, NYC
	Ritch Ruff, Oregeon State
	Dan Lanciani, Harvard University
	Ravinder (Rob) Chandhok, Carnegie Mellon University
	Dwight Mckay, Purdue University
	Steve Fram, CITI, University of Michigan
	Paul Campbell, Unisoft
	Edward Moy, WSSG, University of California at Berkelely
	Tharen Debold, Georgia Tech
	Jim Guyton, The Rand Corporation
	and any we might accidently left out of this list
our thanks!
 

