From graham@walnut.Berkeley.EDU Fri Feb 24 12:15:48 1989
Received: from walnut.Berkeley.EDU by okeeffe.Berkeley.EDU (5.61/1.29)
	id AA22370; Fri, 24 Feb 89 12:15:46 -0800
Received: by walnut.Berkeley.EDU (5.57/1.25)
	id AA21782; Fri, 24 Feb 89 12:13:16 PST
Date: Fri, 24 Feb 89 12:13:16 PST
From: graham@walnut.berkeley.edu (Susan Graham)
Message-Id: <8902242013.AA21782@walnut.Berkeley.EDU>
To: karels@okeeffe.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: management

.pp
Professor Susan L. Graham will serve as the Project Director.  
She has experience as Project Director for the \s-2DARPA\s+2 tasking
contract for 
.q "Productivity Engineering in the \s-2UNIX\s+2 Environment",
which has provided research and/or infrastructure support to most
members of the Computer Science Division at various times.
She will chair a steering committee consisting of Professors
Fateman, Karp, Ousterhout, Russell, Sequin, and Stonebraker.
This group is representative of the faculty \- each
faculty investigator has a close colleague on the committee.
Professors Karp and Sequin are former departmental Associate Chairs for
Computer Science; Professor Fateman is the current Associate Chair.
Professor Fateman is also a former departmental
Vice-Chair for Computing.
Professor Stonebraker has considerable experience directing the
former \s-2INGRES\s+2 project and the current \s-2POSTGRES\s+2
project.
Professor Graham serves on the departmental Computer Needs and
Resources committee (as do Professors Wilensky and Patterson).
All of the steering committee members are actively involved in research
supported by the proposed infrastructure.
.pp
The steering committee will be responsible for setting policy
concerning sharing the facility, for making specific purchasing
decisions, and for supervising the programmers.
It will also serve as a focal point for technical interaction among
the research groups.
.pp
The staff for the proposed facility will consist of four technical
people, a business manager, and a grant administrator.
The technical people, whose salaries will be paid either directly by
the campus, or indirectly by virtue of the overhead exemption, will
consist of a hardware engineer, a system manager, and two
professional programmers.
Initially the programmers will carry out the \s-2UNIX\s+2
development needed to make the facility usable.
In later years they will transfer the research technology we
develop to the systems used by our
.q "user-level"
projects.
One of the programmers will also have some system management
responsibility.
The business manager (the AAIII in the budget) will be Ms. Joan
Slobin, who currently has the same responsibility for the \s-2DARPA\s+2
project mentioned above.
She was formerly on the staff of the campus Sponsored Projects
Office and is familiar with the various campus and government
procedures.
She will supervise a full-time grant administrator (the AAII in the
budget) who will
take care of the day-to-day business and clerical needs of the facility.
We have used a similar structure in all of our large
multi-investigator projects in the department and have found it to
be very successful.
.pp
We will also have the help of the Computer Systems Support Group (CSSG),
which provides hardware and software
services to the department on a recharge basis.
Professor Richard Newton of EECS ably directs CSSG, and has been
instrumental in establishing effective recharge procedures,
budgetary controls, and work scheduling.
The existence of CSSG has enabled the department to benefit from a
pooled collection of spare parts, from shared maintenance
arrangements, and from the flexibility to move staff around as
needed.
CSSG also provides senior staff supervision of hardware and 
software technicians employed by a particular project or research
group, if requested.
The faculty sets direction and policy in all cases.
