Return-Path: <obrien@rand-unix>
Date: Monday,  1 Aug 1983 11:23-PDT
Subject: cmd/dump.c
From: obrien@rand-unix
Index: lib 4.2BSD

Description:

	------- Forwarded Message

	From: trw-unix!felix!wes
	To: trw-unix!randvax!obrien
	Subject: crashes
	Date: Saturday, 30 Jul 1983 21:32-???

                Last week I ask you if you had any leads on some crashes
        that we were having.  You thought is sounded like a hardware bug
        and recommended that I contact Armando.  He came up with an
        explanation that seems to fit the facts.

                The problem was that we recently started getting a lot of
        crashes where the 11/750 executed a halt instruction in low memory.
        Some SCB entries were apparently getting trashed.  This was
        happening due to a hardware glitch in the 11/750 UBI -- longword
        transfers through a buffered data path to a non-longword aligned
        address can do bad things to low memory.  Due to a bug in the C
        compiler for the VAX, the dump program contained just such a raw
        device read.  Ordinarily, the C compiler takes great pains to
        longword align all structures, but if you declare a register
        variable that is shorter than a word, it allocates the word on the
        stack and somehow forgets about alignment of following automatic
        variables.

To Reproduce:
[Use "dump" a lot on 750's.]

Know Fix:

                The routine that has to be changed in dump is dsrch() in
        dumptraverse.c, which had as its automatic declares:

		register char *cp;
		register i;
		register ino_t in;
		struct direct dblk[DIRPB];

        which fell into the C compiler bug because ino_t is unsigned short.
        Transposing the declarations of "in" and "dblk" fixed the problem.

                The reason we had had so many crashes recently is that we
        just recently hired somebody who has been doing regular dumps.  I
        was very lackadaisical about it and didn't do that many dumps, so
        the problem seemed very sporadic before.

                If you have 11/750's with Unibus disks on them beware of
	dump.

        -- wes

	------- End of Forwarded Message

[We think this is biting us as well. -- MOB]
