This directory contains the sources for a ditroff previewer that works
on SUN workstations.  There are two versions, one for SUN-Is (almost
useless now that 120s are being shipped) and one for SUN-IIs.  Neither
of these will work on 120s.

	fixpoint.c	fixed point arithmetic routines for dsun
			(because floating point arithmetic is SO slow on SUNs)
	graph.c		SUN previewer graphics routines
	dsun.c		SUN ditroff previewer
	graph.tool.c	SUN-II previewer graphics routines
	dsun.tool.c	SUN-II window-tool-manager that runs dsun on SUN-IIs
	libcore.a	SUN-I core graphics library, necessary for dsun.tool.c
			on SUN-IIs.
	troff.sh	shell-script that invokes ditroff and can preview too
	troff.sh.2	shell-script that invokes ditroff for SUN-IIs

--------------------------------INSTALLATION---------------------------------

	To install dsun on a SUN, you first need the font description files
in their directories in FONTDIR (defined in dsun.c) as with DITROFF.  You
should add a "devsun" directory to hold descriptions for whatever device you
want the SUN to emulate as a default.  You also need some font files in the
format written by ch2vft.c in THIS directory.  They go in sub-directories of
BITDIR (also in dsun.c), one directory for each output device you want the
SUN to emulate.  One device directory you should have is "devsun".  That is
the directory used to look up fonts if they can't be found in the device
directory for some other device.

	The font files used on the SUNs come from raster printers' font files.
They must be converted to ".@" format and scaled down (by 50% for Imagen and
60% for versatec, for example) using "scalech".  They then need to be converted
back to vft format (using ch2vft from THIS directory) and placed in the appro-
priate "dev" directory.  The names of these files is their one-or-two character
TROFF name followed by "." and the point size they were derived from.

	A minimum configuration should contain enough fonts to get each special
character that can be used by a printer.  One point size (10) is enough, since
missing point sizes will be aliased by the closest available one.  I've found
that four sizes (7, 10, 14 and 24) are enough to emulate the full range of
point sizes.  If a font is not found in the device's directory, "devsun" is
searched.  If it is not found there, the request for the font is ignored.

	See the manual page dsun.8 for this and more information.
