From nbires!uokmet!ctvax!uokvax!root  Sat Sep 15 14:03:55 1984
Date: 14 Sep 84 15:57:45 CDT (Fri)
From: nbires!uokvax!uokmet!root
To: uokvax!ctvax!nbires!ucbvax!2bsd-bugs

Subject: terminal problems (operating system level) with 2.9 BSD
Index:	sys/... 2.9BSD

Description:
	We have a PDP 11/44, running 2.9 BSD UNIX.

	I have had complaints of recent (and I've observed the problem
	myself) of characters typed not echoed on terminals.  Sometimes
	these characters are "seen" by the system, sometimes they are not
	(using ^R here).  The terminal driver is setup to use the new tty
	driver (but see below).

	After some testing, I found out (by accident), if 3 or 4 people
	stop output with ^S, the entire system will freeze.  Characters
	will not echo anywhere, and no commands will run.  A check of the
	PC show the system is spinning in the idle() loop.  If ^Q is entered
	on any of the "offending" terminals, the computer comes back to life.
	I have found out that the system clock will lose time while the system
	is frozen.

	I've tried several things to solve the problem:
		(1) Run tests on individual DZ boards (we have one DEC,
		    and two non-DEC).  No change.
		(2) Turn off and on various system parameters (such as
		    force swap on fork), things that one wouldn't expect
		    to do anything bizarre.  No change.
		(3) I revived 2.8 BSD UNIX and tried my tests.  I could not
		    get the system to hang at all.
		(4) Turned on "old" stty stuff.  Now things happened, but
		    for the worse.  On terminals that were set up "stty old",
		    my test program was dropping characters all over the
		    place, while it worked ok on terminals with "stty new".
		    (All my test program does is forever, print out a line
		    with about 75 characters from the alphabet).  On terminals
		    set up with "stty old", and not running the test pgm,
		    about 50% of the typed characters were not echoed.  On
		    terminals with "stty new", and not running the test, it
		    more on the order of only 10% chars not echoing.  Also,
		    with "stty old" stuff running, our weather data collection
		    program was screaming about read errors.  That program runs
		    at a higher priority than the test programs.  (The data
		    line is at 1200 baud, and tests without the data line
		    running always showed the same results.)
	
	Any help would be greatly appreciated.
	
Repeat-By:
	Make unix; boot unix, cat a file at all terminals, then ^S the
	output.  The system (including the console) will freeze.

	Thanks.

	Kevin W. Thomas
	Programmer/Analyst
	Univ. of Oklahoma
	School of Meteorology
	Norman, Oklahoma
	405-325-6561

UUCP:  nbires!ctvax!uokvax!uokmet!kwthomas (or root)

PS...plz ask "2bsd-people" to add us to their list.
