Return-Path: <jkf@ucbmike>
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 84 13:44:52 pdt
From: John Foderaro (on an sun) <jkf@ucbmike>
Subject: sendmail/ucbvax bug
Index: usr.bin 4.2BSD

I'm tired of getting letters like this:
    Date: 16 Aug 84 11:36 PDT
    From: vanMelle.pa@XEROX.ARPA
    Subject: Franz duplications
    To: Franz-Friends-Request@BERKELEY.ARPA
    Cc: vanMelle.pa@XEROX.ARPA
    
    I sure am tired of getting multiple copies of messages addressed to
    Franz-Friends.  In the latest round, I got eleven (11) copies of the
    message from JonL, roughly once every half hour.  What's going on?
    
	    Bill

The problem is that sendmail gets half way through sending mail to
franz-friends and then gets one of these errors:

Aug 15 17:00:57 localhost: 7953 sendmail: AA07824: SYSERR: queueup: cannot
create temp file tfAA07824: Too many open files


I don't think that sendmail is doing something wrong, I would imagine that
the problem is that ucbvax just has too many processes at the moment.
Sendmail just dies when this happens (as far as I can tell) and doesn't
even checkpoints its work.  Thus the next time it starts, it re-sends
to the people in the front of the list.

the problme is aggravated by the fact that sendmail tries to clump
as many destinations together into one queue entry.  Thus the tendency
is to get these large queue entries.  The larger the queue entry, the
less chance there is that sendmail will be successfully get through it
before it running out of file descriptors.

I was able to break up the franz-friends mailing list into a number of
pieces, but it wasn't easy (I had to mail letters all over berkeley
so that sendmail couldn't figure out that it could clump them together).
This isn't good enough.

Possible course of action:
    1) determine if this is a sendmail bug or it is just Unix
       running out of static file descriptor space.

    2) if it is a Unix problem, then change sendmail so that if it runs
       out of file descriptors, it just sleeps for a certain amount
       of time and then retries.

    3) if it is a sendmail problem, then fix it.

    4) In any event, let me know what is going on.
