Return-Path: <cbosgd!mark>
Date: 26 Jul 83 10:59:19 EDT (Tue)
From: cbosgd!mark (Mark Horton)
Subject: ideas for making the manual smaller

Index:	ideas/manual 4.2BSD

Description:

[I mailed this to 4bsd-ideas and it got returned undeliverable.]

This is more or less in response to Rob Pike's talk at Usenix about
how cat -v is contrary to his idea of how UNIX should be.  Of course,
the reason for cat -v is that Bill Joy was trying to make the manual
smaller (a noble, and successful, effort) and he merged see, num, ssp,a
and cat into cat with options.  Here are two ideas that might be useful
for 4.2 or 4.3 that may or may not offend Rob.

The first one was suggested by Rob (although I assume he was being
facitious), in that chfn should be part of passwd.  Of course, if
this is to be done, chsh should be merged in too.  I can picture
typing "passwd" with no arguments, and the program asking what you
want to change and presenting a menu (and the current info).  Sort
of like the inquir program at MIT.  chfn is hard to use anyway because
of the complexity of the format of the gecos field.  In any event
perhaps the manual pages for chsh, chfn, and passwd should appear
on one page of the manual.

The second idea is that, instead of having lots of separate manual pages
for filters (see, ssp, num, crypt, pr, col, colcrt, colrm, deroff,
expand, tk, tr, ul, etc) you might consider having a manual page
called "filter(1)" (or a separate section or a suffix (1f), I suppose)
to group them all together.

I have heard that the 4.2 manual will be huge, and taming it will no
doubt be a hurculean effort.  I'm glad I don't have to.  I encourage
you to do whatever is necessary to make it manageable, including
throwing away some junk that nobody uses anymore (or putting it in
the user contributed part of the tape) such as tk and learn.
I also strongly encourage you to contact a printer (Brian Redman or
James Ellis can point you at the one we used for 4.1) that can
print up those nice 6x9 GBC bound manuals - such manuals are much much
easier to handle than 8.5x11 notebooks.  You can probably work something
out with the printer where anyone can order manuals directly from them.
(You might want to make 8.5x11 masters an option for anyone who wants
to print things themselves, but considering the volume involved, people
can probably get manuals from this printer for $30 per set of 1+2C.
Even if a local shop can make 8.5x11 cheaper, it's probably worth the
extra cost.)

	Mark
